FUEL - POS Shows Pumps Offline or Unavailable Troubleshooting
 KB ID: KB0011912 - Latest Version
 Views: 328 views
 Description
 Fuel site is showing pumps are offline at the POS but Pay At The Pump (PAP) could still be working.
 If they show offline at the POS and the Pumps, then the site will be down.
 Pumps are showing an error such as Please Pay Inside, or Pump Busy.
 Possibly, only the POS is showing the pumps offline and the pumps are working fine for Pay At Pump.
 Cause
 Fuel Controller is offline
 Communication from the POS to the Fuel controller needs to be reset
 Site may have lost power
 Pump may need service
 Resolution
 Important - Complete Site Down
 If the Fuel Center is completely down, meaning they cannot pump gas or service (sell gas) customers, find
 out if the site is just coming back up from a power outage and verify they have power. Frontend Tier 1
 can have the site try to hit the "Green" reset button to see if the pumps start to come back online. If
 nothing happens and the site is still down, warm transfer to Frontend Tier 2!
 Also Important - Single Pump Issues
 Per APP-FUEL on single pumps offline, when RadViewer shows a pump offline and ICRs are online, ask
 the Fuel Clerk if the light on the port is flashing amber or red on the port for the pump (on the Panther); if
 so, the port is the issue. If the Fuel Clerk feels comfortable with you walking them through trying a
 different open port on the Panther for the pump that is the issue, you can try and then send a ticket to
 APP-FUEL or engage the APP-FUEL chat to update RCM with the new port location and then download
 and reboot.
 This is located in the back of the Panther
If the site is unable to move the port, dispatch IBM to move pump on the panther to a NEW port to try
 and resolve the issue. The IBM tech should be able to determine if it's a Panther port issue or and actual
 hardware issue with the pump. If moving the pump to another port on the Panther does not resolve, the
 site will need to dispatch a Pump Tech to wipe and reload the IGEM or validate low voltage disconnect.
 NGPOS FCBs
 These devices are located inside of the pumps and should be taken into consideration for any E01 errors
 and if the pumps show offline in radviewer.
 1. Check IX Gateway VLAN in TUNA to see if the FCBs ping.
 2. If they do not ping, have the clerk reboot the affected pump(s) at the breaker for one minute.
 3. If the FCBs still do not ping, advise the store to submit as service hub ticket for a pump technician.
 Cincinnati Store personnel places a work order on Maximo.
 One or a Few Pumps Offline
 Important Note - Fire Marshal Requirements
 This is set up in Central and Mariano's Divisions. For example, in Chicago, IL and a few other outlining
 sites, the fire marshal mandates if the button is pressed it is set to trigger an alert to the Fire Dept. The fire
 dept is automatically sent when the button is pressed. If they have no fire or fuel spill, a fine is sited to the
 store.
 They can press the green button only to see if it clicks. If it doesn't DO NOT press the Red button to start
 the EStop.
 Troubleshooting Steps:
 1. Verify and note what the pump shows on the POS and at the pump. If the site is coming back up
 from a power outage you can have the site press the green button reset to try and get them back
 online.
 2. If the pump is online but cannot process cards begin troubleshooting pay at pump credit issues.
 See Linked Knowledge Document: FUEL – Pay at Pump and Credit Troubleshooting
 3. Launch RadViewer from your securecitrix.kroger.com access.
 4. Select the correct division from the drop-down list and press OK.
 5. At the top select the Window tab then select Fuel Console View
 6. In the left panel press + next to your store number
 7. Select the Pumps folder and then press the refresh icon at the top.
8. Check to see if any of the pumps show offline in this view. If you find pumps showing offline in
 RadViewer, and at the POS and/or the pump continue.
 9. Power cycle the pump at the breaker, leaving it off for at least a minute.
 If pump(s) still show Offline in Radviewer:
 If the pump proves to be a hardware issue, have site contact/dispatch on their pump
 tech/facilities even if stuck transactions are on the pump or not.
 If the pump(s) are Online:
 check for stuck transactions.
 See linked Knowledge Document: FUEL– Transaction Stuck on Pump/ Will not Clear from POS
 10. If only the POS is showing the pump(s) is offline:
 Reset the fuel connection. If that doesn't work:
 Dump the POS.
 See Knowledge Document: How To Perform and Prepare Terminal/TCU or Controller Dump
 ALL Pumps Offline
 Frontend Tier 2 Only Troubleshooting
 Note: In many cases like the site is coming up from a power outage, the fuel green reset button should
 be tried first to see if the pumps will come back up.
 Troubleshooting Steps:
 1. Verify and note what the pump shows on the POS and at the pump. Also note if they have a Red X on
 their Fuel Services Icon.
 2. If the POS displays pumps offline and a Red X, and the Pumps show an error such as "Please Pay
 Inside (E01)", troubleshoot the Fuel Controller.
 See Linked Knowledge Document: FUEL – Panther Troubleshooting and Rebooting.
 3. If POS and pumps look normal, and fuel is not coming out, check the Tank Monitor.
 Note: There are about 10 documents under the FUEL – Tank Monitor CI. Search for the document
 that best matches your site's equipment type and issue.
 4. If only the POS displays pumps offline and people can pay at the pump, Reset Fuel Connection.
 5. Have the clerk press their name at the bottom left of the touchscreen.
 6. Press Reset Fuel Connection then OK.
 7. The Pump Icon should show a brief Red X and then a Green √.
 If site is still unable to fuel, continue.
8. Ask if they just had a power outage. Pump ICR Screens will be blank.
 Verify if the power is back on or not. If it is not, refer them to their facilities or an electrician.
 Notify the KMA.
 See Knowledge Document: POS/FUEL DIVISION CONTACTS
 9. If they have power such as lights, check the breaker panel to make sure everything is flipped on.
 10. If they have power back, but nothing pings, check TUNA for VLAN Jail issues.
 See Linked Knowledge Document: VLAN Overview
 11. If everything is showing online in PSY, have them hit the green Fuel Reset button located above their
 breaker panel - ONLY IF IT DOES NOT CALL EMERGENCY SERVICES, such as the Fire Department. If it
 does, a fuel tech will need to be dispatched. See Important Note Here
 ICR Offline
 Pump Icons that are gray and showing OFFLINE indicate a loss of communication to the pumps outside.
 ICR Offline on the POS is caused by the POS losing connection to the pump ICR's due to the PANTHER
 rebooting.
 Resolution Steps:
 Instruct user to press each pump icon that is alerting ICR OFFLINE. This will trigger the POS to
 reconnect the pump's ICR.
 If the pump is still showing ICR Offline, try having the Fuel Attendant Reset Fuel Connection from the
 Name Menu. See related entry on Touchscreen Icon details.