Operator # Is Invalid - How To Check Operator ID's in ACE and Authorization Levels and SCO Lanes
KB0012718 - Latest Version
42 views

Synopsis
This document shows how to check an ID for ACE, Authorization Level, and if it’s set up after an existing model.  
In most cases, an ID won’t work correctly unless it’s modeled (set up) after an existing ID.

Stores may call in about this error:  

Solution
Important: The KSC is NOT allowed to change operator levels or remove/add IDs in ACE.  
This must be handled by the person who sets up IDs in the store or Division.

POS Initialization Failed - Operator # is Invalid

1. If lane does not show up under Operator Authorization Model ID 9, escalate to Frontend Tier 2 to send to APP-POS:
   - P3 for one lane
   - P2 for two or more lanes.

2. If lanes are showing under Model ID 6, escalate to Frontend Tier 2 to send to APP-POS, P4.

How to Check Operator Authorization Records

1. Log into the POS MC Controller using KSC Login and Daily Password.

2. Go into 1 ACE Main Menu.

3. Go into Reports.

4. Arrow down to Data Maintenance Reports and press <Enter>.

5. Arrow down to Operator Authorization and press <Enter>.

6. Flag the following options and press <Enter>.

7. As you page down, you will see the Model ID, Model Name, and Operator ID.

   - For example, Dynamic Override IDs must be Model 6.

8. If you page down and reach "NO MODEL USED!", these IDs may not work correctly because they were not modeled after an existing record.

   - If the ID you are working with falls here, the store needs to set up the ID correctly by modeling it after an existing ID.
   - This is procedural; they must contact their instore person who sets IDs or the Division (K6557).

Examples:

- Dynamic Overrides: If not set up correctly, they may not work or print Dynamic Overrices.
- Fuel Operator IDs: If not set up correctly, will not be able to ring up Loyalty.
- For SCO lanes, the lanes must be entered under level (Model ID) *9.

Note:  
If CHEC lanes are listed under Operator Level *6, escalate to Frontend Tier 2 to send ticket to APP-POS, P4.
