Item Fails Security Check
If an item fails the security check (doesn't recognize the item is on the belt, asks to rescan the item, etc) please have the associate scan the SA card and then the item as the first attempt to resolve.

  - This process is designed to override the item security and allow the item to pass down the lane

 

The belt has stopped and will not start or gives Sensor Blocked Error


1. Lift the front transition plates and clear anything blocking the safety sensor.

2. Lift the rear transition plates and clear anything blocking the safety sensor.

3. Check and clear anything blocking the side sensors.

4. Hit the green button and select system shutdown.

5. Wait 30 seconds and power back on the lane using the green button.

6. If issue is resolved close the ticket.

7. If this does not resolve the issue dispatch Toshiba

 

The belt scale is detecting weight incorrectly or not detecting weight at all.
1. Clean around the edges of the belt to make sure nothing is touching or stuck there.

2. Zero scale in SA menu

  - In SA menu touch Next Page

  - Touch Zero Security Scale button.

  - Then test it by scanning an item and placing it on the belt.

1. Item should be accepted and be moved to the bagging area.

2. If that resolves the issue, close the ticket, if not continue.

3. Send a 8load to the lane.

4. If that resolves close the ticket, if not continue.

5. Hit the green button and select system shutdown.

6. Wait 30 seconds and power back on the lane using the green button.

7. If issue is resolved close the ticket.

8. If this does not resolve the issue dispatch Toshiba.

 

The belt is not stopping or alerting when bagging area is full
1. Lift the rear transition plates and clear anything blocking the safety sensor.

2. Send a 8load to the lane.

3. If that resolves close the ticket, if not continue.

4. Hit the green button select system shutdown.

5. Wait 30 seconds and power back on the lane using the green button

6. If issue is resolved close the ticket.

7. If this does not resolve the issue dispatch per Toshiba.