SCO - Software - Quick Lookup Troubleshooting
KB0011084  


Description

Item Quick Lookup Troubleshooting

 

Cause
The SSIE file containing a list of products authorized for sale at the store is missing items, or the Quick Lookup software files on the controller that controls the SCO lane are incorrect.

 

Resolution
 

The stores are getting an communication on informing them who to contact if they need an item removed from the QLU Package. See attachment at the bottom.

If the store is reporting some or a small number of items missing from the Quick Lookup list, incorrect items are included, or items need to be updated/changed, please refer the store to log a Bi-Way request. The items will need to be updated/added/removed by the pricing team via the BIWAY ticket. See linked document  SCO - MISC - Pricing / Data Maintenance Setup Issues

If the store is reporting that lanes prompt “Set Item Aside”, see linked document

 SCO - Scale/Scanner Items Scan as Item Not On File / Set Item Aside

 

One common call we might get is "I am only seeing 4 items" (These are usually the default items apples, bananas, Potatoes etc.)


Note: If it's just one single lane not working and all the other lanes are working, still follow all the trouble shooting steps in this document.



For all other issues, continue with the steps below.

 

1. Frontend Tier 1, please warm transfer the call to Frontend Tier 2. 

2. Frontend Tier 1:  Log on to the MC and go into 7. Command Mode.At the C: Prompt copy and paste the following command: dir c:\adx_idt1\ssie.txt then press Enter

3. Verify the file is somewhere between 1 million (1,000,000) to 5 million (5,000,000) bytes.

Note: At Harris Teeter stores the file size is typically 7155 bytes.

 



 

If SSIE.TXT is below 1,000,000 bytes or outside the expected range (1,000,000 5,000,000)in enterprise stores (except HT), call Frontend Tier 2 to escalate to APP-CAOMotusSPA. Severity 2 to regenerate and resend the SSIE.TXT file to the store. After the ticket is returned from APP-CAOMotusSPA Frontend Tier 2, continue with the next steps.