Coin Recycler is Jammed
1. Determine what the error message is and follow documentation if available.

2. Open lane cover doors to gain access to the coin recycler.

3. Find the 'blue strip' place your hand under it (shown below) and pull it toward you.

4. Press the restart button on the coin recycler.

5. Cash Machine error should clear. If it does, test via Cash Diagnostics, see
How to Use Cash Diagnostics to Test , if error remains, press the green button behind the screen and select "shutdown system". See Toshiba SCO Register Power On/Off Procedures .

6. Open the top cover and check for jammed coins in the gates; the carousel may be moved manually. The carousel normally moves in a clockwise direction therefore any jammed coins are likely to need the carousel to be reversed slightly. Apply steady pressure to the carousel fingers, move it counter-clockwise. Expect there to be some resistance when trying to move the carousel. (see picture below)

7. Unlock the unit. Then push the top of the recycler/acceptor back, uncovering the hoppers.
  - Look down into the hopper and examine if the jam is at the rotator in the bottom of the hopper.

  - Rotating the blue coin disk manually to free the coin. (see picture below)
  - Keep away from face as a stuck coin could be ejected at high velocity.

  - Remove any debris from around and under the coin disk area

8. Put hopper back into place.

9. Open singulator door to check for jams/debris on the top track by moving the track toward the machine.

  - If moving the track belt toward the machine does not resolve the issue try moving it away from the machine (see pictures below)

10. Close singulator door slide in coin recycler back into lane, power back on.

11. Check cash maintenance for errors, if error remains or jam could not be cleared, dispatch IBM/Toshiba.

12. If issue is suspected to be software related, take an extract and escalate to FE Tier 2 to escalate to APP-POS.


Coin is Accepted but not Deducted from Total

1. Check for cash machine errors in Cash Maintenance.

2. Power cycle the lane using the green button behind the screen.

3. Test, using Cash Diagnostics. See How to Use Cash Diagnostics to Test

4. If issue remains, send a 9-load.

5. Test again.

6. Dispatch Toshiba if issue remains.

